GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE FEBRUARY 3RD
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
ALLEGIANCE
.
>> I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG THE UNITED STATES
OF AMERICA AND TO THE REPUBLIC
FOR WHICH ONE NATION IS WITH
LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR ALL
WITH OUR CLERK PLEASE CALL THE
ROLE OF COUNSEL MEMBER DISH
HERE BECAUSE OF OUR HARRISON
HERE CUSTOMER WATSON HERE.
THAT'S OUR MALLICK HERE.
I'M ALREADY NOT HERE FOR THE
ODD ONE HERE MAYOR TAYLOR HERE
OR ELSEWHERE.
I'M HERE ELSEWHERE HERE
ELSEWHERE BRICK HERE,
COUNCILMAN CORNELL ABSENT WE
HAVE A QUORUM NOW THE MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
BUT WAS THINKING ABOUT COUNCIL
MEMBER DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA
I'LL FAVOR OPPOSE THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
NO MAYOR.
WE HAVE TWO INTRODUCTIONS
TODAY.
THE FIRST FROM OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION.
>> AN UPDATE FROM THE CHAIR
CHAIR CARTER CHERCOVER.
I BELIEVE YOU'RE ON ZOM
MR.
CARTER.
IF YOU'RE ON ZOM CAN YOU PLEASE
RAISE YOUR HAND
?
MAYOR?
>> I DO NOT SEE MR. CARTER ON
ZOOM PERHAPS WITH WITH CARLSON
COUNCIL'S ACQUIESCENCE WILL
FLIP INTRODUCTIONS ONE AND TWO
AND SEE WHETHER SHE SHOWS HAS
AN OPPORTUNITY TO JOIN US IN
THAT LIGHT.
>> LET'S ROLL PLEASE WITH THE
INTRODUCTION NUMBER TO THAT IS
A PROCLAMATION WITH RESPECT TO
GROUND COVER VENDOR
APPRECIATION WEEK FOLKS COME ON
UP
.
COME ON UP EVERYONE.
SO WE WE TALK TO THE CAMERA
FIRST SO WE DO OCCASIONALLY
BEFORE COUNCIL MEETINGS TAKE A
PAUSE TO HONOR IMPORTANT GROUPS
WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY.
AS EVERYONE KNOWS THE THE
DOWNTOWN IS FOR EVERYONE.
AND IF YOU EVER BEEN DOWNTOWN,
YOU KNOW THAT THERE ARE FOLKS
WHO ARE THERE WORKING HARD
EVERY DAY WORKING TO SELL THE
GROUND COVER NEWS WHICH IS A
STREET NEWSPAPER WHICH ENABLES
FOLKS TO TO LEARN SKILLS ABOUT
WRITING AND AND SELLING AND
BUSINESS WORK.
BUT ALSO ENABLES FOLKS OUTSIDE
OF THAT SPHERE TO LEARN A
LITTLE BIT ABOUT WHAT'S GOING
ON IN OUR DOWNTOWN THROUGHOUT
THE ENTIRETY OF OUR POPULATION
,OUR COMMUNITY.
AND SO IN THAT LIGHT IT'S MY
GREAT PLEASURE TO TO PROCLAIM
THIS WEEK GROUNDCOVER
APPRECIATION WEEK.
>> SO LET ME LET ME ROLL
THROUGH A LITTLE BIT ON THIS
PRESENTATION AND WE'LL TAKE IT
FROM THERE.
WHEREAS GROUND COVER NEWS IS A
STREET NEWSPAPER THAT PROVIDES
QUALITY NEWS AND FEATURES TO
THE ENTIRE COMMUNITY SINCE
APRIL 2010, WHEREAS THE GROUND
COVER NEWS FIVE OR ONE C THREE
IT EMPOWERS AND SUPPORTS LOW
INCOME COMMUNITY MEMBERS TO
MAKE THE TRANSITION FROM
HOMELESS TO HOUSED FROM JOBLESS
TO EMPLOYED WHEREAS GROUND
COVER NEWS AND VENDORS PROVIDED
INVITATION TO BUILD MEANINGFUL
RELATIONSHIPS IN THE COMMUNITY
AND INCREASE THEIR SKILLS AND
ABILITY TO NAVIGATE CHALLENGES
WHEREAS GROUND COVER NEWS
VENDORS ADD TO THE QUALITY
OF LIFE OF ANN ARBOR AND THE
DOWNTOWN IN THE GREATER
WASHINGTON COMMUNITY NOW THERE
FARAI CHRISTOPHER TAYLOR, MAYOR
OF ANN ARBOR, MICHIGAN TO
HEREBY PROCLAIM THE WEEK
OF FEBRUARY TO TWENTY TWENTY
FIVE AS GROUND COVER VENDOR
APPRECIATION WEEK AND CALL UPON
GROUND COVER NEWS STAFF,
VOLUNTEERS AND THE ANN ARBOR
COMMUNITY TO JOIN US IN THIS
CELEBRATION AND OCCASIONALLY
BUY A PAPER MAGAZINE MAGAZINE.
BUT THE WHOLE IS THERE ANYTHING
YOU'D LIKE TO SAY A LITTLE SAY
OK ALL RIGHT IT'S ALL YOU FIRST
OF ALL I WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR FOR
ALLOWING US TO PARTAKE IN THIS
GROUNDCOVER.
OK, I'M BAD AT BIG SPEECHES.
I GET NERVOUS IN FRONT
OF PEOPLE.
GROUNDCOVER IS REALLY BIGGER
THAN WHAT PEOPLE THINK.
YES, WE DO HELP PEOPLE GET JOBS
AND HELP PEOPLE EARN MONEY TO
GET HOUSING BUT ALSO GROUND
COVER HAS HELPED MANY OF US
MYSELF INCLUDED ACHIEVE GOALS,
PERSONAL GOALS ON MOST ALL KIND
OF GOALS.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU
ARE FOR ALLOWING US TO BE OUT
HERE AND FOR FIRST AND FOREMOST
EMBRACING US IN THE COMMUNITY.
I WANT TO THANK ALL RIGHT.
THANKS, JOE
.
SO ONE WAY THAT WE CELEBRATE
VENDOR WEEK IS TO DO AN
ACTIVITY CALLED CELEBRITY SELL
SALES AND WE LOVE TO INVITE OUR
CITY COUNCIL AND ELECTED
OFFICIALS TO PARTAKE IN SELLING
GROUND COVER .
A GREAT WAY TO APPRECIATE IT IS
TO UNDERSTAND HOW HARD THE JOB
OF SELLING GROUND COVER IS AND
WHAT IT IS LIKE TO PUT YOURSELF
OUT THERE AND ENGAGE WITH OUR
COMMUNITY MEMBERS.
SO IF YOU'RE INTERESTED IN
DOING THAT ON THURSDAY FROM
ELEVEN TO THREE THAT
OPPORTUNITY YOU CAN COME TO OUR
OFFICE OR REACH OUT TO ME VIA
EMAIL AND WE CAN ARRANGE FOR
YOU TO TRY SELLING GROUNDCOVER
.
THANK YOU.
I WOULD JUST LIKE TO KNOW I
THOUGHT JOE WAS GOING TO SAY
THAT GROUND COVER IS A MEMBER
OF THE INTERNATIONAL STREET
PAPERS ASSOCIATION SO IT'S WHAT
YOU GUYS.
ALL RIGHT, THANKS FOR COMING
IN.
YEAH, THIS I'M FROM ANN ARBOR
AND I APPRECIATE ALL THE HELP
I'VE LEARNED A LOT.
I'M STILL LEARNING I TEND TO BE
A REPORTER ABOUT WHAT'S GOING
ON IN POLITICS.
YOU FOOTBALL GAMES I'M FROM
HERE I'VE BEEN HERE 68 YEARS.
I SHOULD BE IN THEIR STORY AND
LIBRARY BUT IT IS A CHALLENGING
JOB BUT IT'S WORTH IT AND I DO
ENJOY IT.
I HAVE MY TIME TO TAKE A BREAK
BECAUSE I'M A LITTLE OLDER THAN
SOME OF THESE FOLKS HERE BUT
IT'S WORTH HAVING IT IN ANN
ARBOR AND I'VE ALWAYS LOVED
THIS COMMUNITY BECAUSE I'M FROM
HERE.
SO THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
HAVE A GREAT TIME.
THANKS VERY MUCH.
THANKS FOR COMING IN.
YEAH, YEAH SURE.
ALL RIGHT.
I JUST WANT TO SAY REAL FAST
THAT WE ARE HAVING AN EVENT
THAT LIVE ON FRIDAY IT'S A
GROUND COVER FRIEND RAISER
FUNDRAISER WITH THE REGULAR
HAPPY HOUR THAT'S GOING ON
THERE.
WE REALLY APPRECIATE THIS
PROCLAMATION.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED THAT YOU ARE
SUPPORTING WORK WITH DIGNITY,
LOW BARRIER WORK WITH DIGNITY
IN YOUR COUNTY SO THANKS VERY
MUCH.
THANKS TO YOU
.
WE NOW HAVE OUR UPDATE FROM THE
CHAIR OF OUR INDEPENDENT
COMMUNITY POLICE OVERSIGHT
COMMISSION CHAIR CARTER CHAIR
CARTER, YOU HAVE THE CONN.
THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
FIRST I APOLOGIZE.
I WAS HAVING SOME SERIOUS
CONNECTIVITY ISSUES BUT I'M
GLAD I GOT THROUGH SO GOOD
EVENING, MR. MAYOR.
ADMINISTRATOR TO ME CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS WE DIDN'T HAVE
A MEETING IN DECEMBER BUT I'M
PLEASED TO ANNOUNCE THAT IN OUR
JANUARY MEETING A WEEK OR SO
AGO WE FINALLY HAVE A FULL
COMPLEMENT OF COMMISSIONERS.
WE HAD ALL ELEVEN COMMISSIONERS
.
WE WELCOMED TWO NEW
COMMISSIONERS TO THE COMMISSION
ON LAST WEEK IN JANUARY.
WE'RE VERY BUSY FINISHING UP
OUR TWENTY TWENTY FOUR ANNUAL
REPORT.
WE HOPE TO HAVE THAT OUT TO YOU
IN THE NEXT COUPLE OF WEEKS.
WE HAVE BEEN HAVING MEETINGS
WITH CHIEF ANDERSON AND SOME
OF HIS STAFF, HIS COMMAND STAFF
AND WE WE HAVE ESTABLISHED I
THINK A GOOD WORKING
RELATIONSHIP.
WE'RE STILL LOOKING AT SOME
OF THE POLICIES THAT WE WANT TO
COME IN ON AND CHIEF ANDERSON
HAS BEEN VERY RECEPTIVE.
WE CONTINUE OUR WORK FOR MAKING
RECOMMENDATIONS FOR CURRENT
POLICIES.
OUR OUTREACH COMMITTEE IS BUSY
PLANNING FOR WHAT WE HOPE WILL
BE A WE'RE CALLING IT AT THIS
POINT A SOCIAL JUSTICE
SYMPOSIUM WHICH SHOULD BE HELD
IN MAY AND IT'S BEEN NAMED IN
HONOR OF JUDE WALTON ONE OF OUR
FORMER COMMISSIONERS.
AND SO WE WILL AGAIN INVITE YOU
OUT TO THAT WHEN WE HAVE IT ALL
PLANNED OUT.
BUT FOR NOW IT IS PLANNED IN
MAY.
SO WE CONTINUE OUR WORK AND I
HAVE NOTHING FURTHER TO TO
REPORT IF THERE ARE ANY
QUESTIONS I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
WHAT NEEDS WAS SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS ALL INSTANCES
WE'LL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS.
OUR REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR
TIME HAS EXPIRED WHEN YOUR TIME
IS EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY IS
DIANA KIMBAL.
HELLO MAYOR AND COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
MY NAME IS DIANA KIMBALL.
I'M HERE ON BEHALF OF THE ANN
ARBOR WOMEN'S GROUP A W.G. IN
YOUR APPLICATION ARE THE
APPLICATION THAT I SUBMITTED.
YOU'LL SEE WE HAVE A WELL OUR
PURPOSE AS WELL AS A WEBSITE A
TWO WOMEN'S GROUP, DOUG AND YOU
CAN GET MORE INFORMATION THERE.
BUT I WANTED TO SAY THAT WE ARE
A VOLUNTEER NONPROFIT 501 THREE
C ORGANIZATION DESIGNED TO HELP
WOMEN IN OUR COMMUNITY ACHIEVE
AND MAINTAIN SOBRIETY FROM
DRUGS AND ALCOHOL.
WE WERE A VOLUNTEER BOARD.
WE ARE BASICALLY ALWAYS
ATTEMPTING TO TEACH TO EDUCATE
WOMEN ON HOW TO STAY SOBER.
WE ALSO HAVE ALL SORTS
OF EVENTS.
ONE OF THOSE EVENTS IS COMING
UP FEBRUARY 16 AT WEBERS.
IT'S A RECOVERY BRUNCH AND IT'S
ACTUALLY ON OUR WEBSITE AS
WELL.
AND WHAT I'M SEEKING IS A
CHARITABLE GAMING LICENSE.
WE LIKE TO DO A 50 50 RAFFLE
AND YOU KNOW, IT'S BASICALLY
SOMETHING THAT WE ARE THERE TO
BRING WOMEN TOGETHER.
LAST YEAR WE WE HAD ONE HUNDRED
AND SIXTY NINE WOMEN THERE.
WE ALWAYS HAVE A GUEST SPEAKER
WHO'S SOBER.
I MYSELF HAVE THIRTY FOUR YEARS
OF SOBRIETY AND I'M CO PRESENT
ONE OF THE PRESIDENTS MY FRIEND
JANIS'S ALSO A CO PRESIDENT.
WE HAVE LEARNED OVER TIME THAT
THE OPPOSITE OF ADDICTION IS
CONNECTION AND AS ADDICTS WE
HAVE A TENDENCY TO ISOLATE AND
SO WHAT WE'RE ATTEMPTING TO DO
IS TO BRING WOMEN OUT TO EVENTS
SO THAT WE CAN GET TO KNOW ONE
ANOTHER.
I THINK THAT'S ALL I HAVE.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR SUPPORT AND
FOR CONSIDERING THIS.
DO YOU HAVE ANY QUESTIONS AT
ALL?
>> NO.
OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH.
APPRECIATE YOUR TIME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ADAM
GOODMAN AND ADAM GOODMAN
JOINING US ON THE PHONE.
>> GO AHEAD.
>> HI THERE.
THIS IS ADAM GOODMAN.
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THE
FIFTH WARD AND I WANT TO TALK
TONIGHT ABOUT C ONE, THE
REZONING PROPOSAL FOR A COUPLE
OF COUPLE OF PROPERTIES ON
DEXTER AVENUE TO CREATE A NEW
PARK.
I DON'T OPPOSE THIS SPECIFIC
PROPOSAL BUT I BELIEVE THAT
RAISES SOME CONCERNS THAT WE DO
NEED TO ADDRESS MORE
HOLISTICALLY.
SO TO SET THE STAGE LAST SUMMER
A FEW FRIENDS AND I DECIDED TO
BASICALLY DO THE VISIT EVERY
PARK CHALLENGE BY BIKE AND IN A
SINGLE DAY IT TOOK US 95 MILES
AND ALMOST 12 HOURS TO BIKE
PAST OR THROUGH ALL 162 CITY
OF ARBOR PARK PROPERTIES.
I TOOK AWAY A COUPLE OF THINGS
FROM THIS EXPERIENCE.
FIRST I PURCHASED SYSTEM WAS
AWESOME.
I LIVE IN ONE OF THE THINGS
THAT MAKES CITY SPECIAL AND
THERE ARE SOME REAL HIDDEN GEMS
THAT YOU MIGHT NEVER FIND OR
EXPERIENCE IF YOU WEREN'T DOING
A CRAZY CHALLENGE LIKE THIS.
BUT SECOND, I THINK WE ACTUALLY
HAVE TOO MANY PARKS.
A LOT OF OUR PARK PROPERTIES
AREN'T SPECIAL.
THEY'RE JUST PATCHES OF TURF OR
BUCKTHORN THICKETS THAT PROVIDE
NO REAL VALUE TO OUR CITY OR
NEARBY RESIDENTS AND THE
PROBLEMS THAT FRANKLY HAVE BEEN
USED FOR PROBABLY A BETTER
PURPOSE BUT IT ACTUALLY GETS
EVEN WORSE THAN THAT EVEN IN
SOME OF THE PARKS THAT ARE
IMPORTANT AND VALUABLE
FACILITIES ARE DECREPIT.
YOU PROBABLY ALREADY KNOW AS
OUR ELECTED LEADERS THAT OUR
PARKS SYSTEM IS UNDERFUNDED AT
YOU PROBABLY KNOW THIS IN
THEORY BUT VISITING EVERY PARK
IS A GREAT WAY TO VISCERALLY
EXPERIENCE THIS.
WE HAVE TO GIVE OUT BECAUSE
THERE'S A BRIDGE OVER A CREEK
AND SULLIVAN PARK FITS IT TURNS
OUT IT'S BEEN CLOSED FOR YEARS
BECAUSE IT'S UNSAFE.
THE GALLUP PARK ACCESS ROAD IS
TRULY AWFUL SHAPE.
WE'VE GOT BACTERIN BUILDINGS
AND A BUNCH OF PLACES THAT HAVE
BEEN CLOSED LITERALLY FOR
DECADES.
I MEAN I DON'T KNOW HOW LONG
AND THEN THERE'S THE REAL BIG
TICKET ITEMS LIKE THE WEST PARK
BANDSHELL, THE FARMERS MARKET
ADMINISTRATION BUILDING.
WE'RE NOT IN A GREAT SITUATION
WITH THIS WITH OUR PARK SYSTEM
AND OF COURSE I REALIZE THAT
SOME PROJECTS TO SOLVE SOME
OF THESE ARE UNDERWAY BUT IF IT
WERE PROPERLY FUNDED THEN THESE
ISSUES WOULD HAVE BEEN SOLVED
BEFORE THEY BECAME CRITICAL
SAFETY ISSUES AND RESULTED IN
FACILITIES HAVING TO CLOSE SO
THIS DAXTER PARK SEEMS TO HAVE
A COMPELLING RATIONALE BEHIND
IT.
THE PROCESS IS PRETTY FAR ALONG
SO I'M NOT ASKING FOR YOU TO
OPPOSE IT BUT I BELIEVE IT
SHOULD BE THE LAST PARK.
BUT CITY COUNCIL APPROVES UNTIL
WE FIGURE OUT HOW TO GET OUR
MAINTENANCE SITUATION
STABILIZED.
THAT IS TO SAY CITY COUNCIL
SHOULD PLACE A MORATORIUM ON
NEW PARKLAND ACQUISITION UNTIL
WE CAN PROPERLY TAKE CARE
OF WHAT WE ALREADY HAVE 30
SECONDS AND ALSO, YOU KNOW, I
HAVE TO SAY IT'S KIND
OF RIDICULOUS SITUATION WE'RE
IN WHERE WE HAVE LOTS OF MONEY
TO BUY NEW PARKLAND BUT NOT TO
MAINTAIN IT ONCE WE HAVE IT
THIS IS OF COURSE BECAUSE
OF THE GREENBELT VILLAGE WHICH
SETS ASIDE ONE THIRDS OF ITS
FUNDS FOR PARK ACQUISITION
WITHIN THE CITY.
BUT I'VE GIVEN A SITUATION
WE'RE IN IF I'M NOT COMPLETELY
SURE THIS IS POSSIBLE UNDER
STATE LAW.
BUT IF WE CAN YOU SHOULD PUT
FORWARD A BALLOT QUESTION TO
THE VOTERS ASKING TO REALLOCATE
THOSE FUNDS TO CAPITAL AND
MAINTENANCE INSTEAD OF PARK
ACQUISITION.
THAT WAY WE COULD TAKE SOME
STEPS TOWARDS SOLVING THIS
WITHOUT ANY NEW TAXES FOR
RESIDENTS OF THIS.
>> THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ERIC
ADVANTAGE.
ERIC ADVANTAGE.
HE WILL BE JOINING US ON UNTIL
GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU FOR GIVING ME THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SPEAK ABOUT
SIDEWALKS TONIGHT.
>> MY NAME IS ERIC IVANCICH AND
I'M SPEAKING TO YOU FROM THE
THIRD WARD IN TWENTY TWENTY ONE
WE PLAN TO FILL SIDEWALK GAPS
ALONG SUNSET ROAD IN PART
BECAUSE IT'S AN IMPORTANT ROUTE
FOR STUDENTS WALKING AND BIKING
TO FORSYTH MIDDLE SCHOOL AND
WIGGINS ELEMENTARY.
>> HOWEVER, MANY RESIDENTS
ALONG SUNSET DID NOT WANT THE
SIDEWALKS AND THEY CONVINCED
THE CITY TO COMBINE THE
SIDEWALK PROJECT WITH A LARGER
TRANSPORTATION PROJECT DUE TO
THE HIGH COSTS THIS LARGER
PROJECT HAS BEEN POSTPONED
UNTIL SOMETIME AFTER TWENTY
THIRTY ONE ACCORDING TO OUR
CAPITAL IMPROVEMENT PLAN.
AS A RESULT THE SIDEWALK
PROJECT WAS EFFECTIVELY
CANCELED.
THIS DECISION HAS FAILED OUR
RESIDENTS AND OUR
SCHOOLCHILDREN AND I SET A
PRECEDENT FOR STOPPING OTHER
SIDEWALK PROJECTS IN OUR CITY
CURRENTLY THE SIDEWALK GAPS ON
BROCKMANN AND CRESTLINE ARE
SCHEDULED TO BE FILLED IN
TWENTY TWENTY SIX.
HOWEVER RESIDENTS ALONG
BROCKMANN ARE TRYING TO LINK
THE SIDEWALK PROJECT TO A
RECENTLY REQUESTED TRAFFIC
CALMING PROJECT ASSUMING THEIR
CONCERNS ABOUT SPEEDING DRIVERS
ARE VALID.
IT'S EVEN MORE IMPORTANT TO
FILL THESE SIDEWALK GAPS AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE GIVEN THAT
BROCKMANN IS A WALKING AND
BIKING ROUTE TO TAP MIDDLE
SCHOOL AND KIDS ARE CERTAINLY
ARE CURRENTLY FORCED TO WALK IN
THE ROAD, ANY DELAY IS
UNACCEPTABLE.
THE CITY HANDLES TRAFFIC COMING
REQUESTS IN CHRONOLOGICAL ORDER
SO THE BROCKMANN TRAFFIC COMMON
PROJECT IS STILL A FEW YEARS
AWAY MULTIPLE NEIGHBORHOOD
MEETINGS AND A TRAFFIC STUDY
ARE ALL PART OF THE PRELIMINARY
PROCESS AND IT'S POSSIBLE THE
STREET WON'T EVEN MEET
CRITERIA.
ADDITIONALLY, BROCKMANN
RESIDENTS ASSUME THEY CAN
DICTATE A NARROWING OF THE
ENTIRE STREET BUT THERE ARE
LESS EXPENSIVE TRAFFIC CALMING
OPTIONS LIKE BRIEF BUMP OUTS,
SPEED TABLES AND SPEED BUMPS
NARROWING THE STREET AND
PLACING THE SIDEWALKS ALONG THE
CURB RATHER THAN BEHIND THE
LAWN EXTENSION MAKES THE
SIDEWALKS LESS SAFE IF SOMEONE
WALKING OR USING A WHEELCHAIR
ACCIDENTALLY HITS THE EDGE
OF THE CURB, THEY COULD FALL
INTO THE STREET AND INTO
TRAFFIC.
IMAGINE THE FAMILY TAKING A
WALK WITH A TODDLER CONSTANTLY
WORRIED ABOUT THEIR CHILD
TUMBLING INTO THE STREET.
THE LAWN EXTENSIONS ARE A
SAFETY FEATURE OF THESE
SIDEWALKS.
IF WE CAREFULLY LISTEN TO THE
BROCKMANN RESIDENTS IT'S CLEAR
THEY WANT THE CITY TO ABANDON
THE CITY THE PUBLIC'S RIGHT
OF WAY WHERE THE SIDEWALK
SHOULD BE BUILT SO THEY CAN
KEEP IT AS PART OF THEIR FRONT
YARDS.
WHAT THEY ARE ASKING FOR IS A
DELAY OF YEARS MORE COST TO THE
CITY, A LAND GIFT FROM THE
PUBLIC AND ULTIMATELY LESS
SAFETY FOR PEOPLE.
LET US LEARN FROM THE MISTAKE
WITH SUNSET ROAD AND FILL THE
BROCKMANN AND CRESTLINE
SIDEWALK GAPS WITHOUT ANY
DELAY.
>> THIRTY SECONDS.
THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBER
BRAKE'S THANK YOU.
SO I'VE HAD A NUMBER
OF CONVERSATIONS FOLKS OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF WEEKS HAVE
RECEIVED A LOT OF EMAILS AND I
JUST WANTED TO SPEAK A LITTLE
BIT TO SOME OF WHAT I'M HEARING
SO I JUST WANT TO START BY
ACKNOWLEDGING THE STRESS THAT
MANY OF US CITY STAFF, OUR
COMMUNITY PARTNERS AND
RESIDENTS ARE EXPERIENCING
SINCE TRUMP IS INAUGURATED TWO
SHORT WEEKS AGO, OUR COUNTRY
HAS BEEN HURLED INTO CHAOS
THROUGH A SERIES OF CRUEL AND
CALCULATED EXECUTIVE ORDERS AND
ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS BY
APPOINTED OFFICIALS AND
UNAPPOINTED INDIVIDUALS.
THE IMPACT LOCALLY A SIZABLE
AND UNPRECEDENTED ON THE
ECONOMIC SIDE WE'VE SEEN
BILLIONS OF DOLLARS IN FEDERAL
FUNDING FROZEN TO MICHIGAN AND
WHILE SOME OF THAT ALTHOUGH
SOME OF THAT FUNDING HAS BEEN
UNFROZEN, MUCH IS STILL IN
LIMBO AS IT IS TIED TO
CONDITIONS AND NEW POLICIES
AROUND DTI AND IMMIGRATION
POLICY AND THERE'S THE
UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN ALONE
RECEIVED ONE BILLION DOLLARS IN
FEDERAL FUNDING LAST YEAR.
THE LIVELIHOODS OF SO MANY
OF OUR RESIDENTS ARE TIED TO
FEDERAL FUNDING NONPROFIT
AGENCIES SERVING REFUGEES HAVE
ALREADY LOST PRECIOUS DOLLARS
AND MANY OF OUR RESIDENTS WHO
ARE FEDERAL EMPLOYEES SUCH AS
THE HUNDREDS WHO WORK AT THE
EPA ARE FEARFUL FOR THE FUTURE
OF THEIR JOBS.
AND THEN THERE IS THE EMOTIONAL
TOLL OF WATCHING AN ALL RIGHT
FASCIST GOVERNMENT TAKE CONTROL
OF OUR DEMOCRACY.
I JUST WANTED TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT THE ROAD AHEAD WILL BE
TOUGH AND THERE ARE LIMITED
TOS THAT WE HAVE AS LOCAL
GOVERNMENT.
BUT I KNOW THAT WE'LL BE USING
ALL THE LEVERAGE THAT WE HAVE
TO PROTECT EACH AND EVERY
MEMBER OF OUR COMMUNITY AND
KNOW THAT EACH ONE OF US AROUND
THE TABLE HAS BEEN REALLY
ATTENTIVE TO THIS ISSUE AND OUR
STAFF IS WE'LL BE WORKING OUR
BEST TO COMMUNICATE GOOD AND
ACCURATE AND TIMELY INFORMATION
WITH EVERYBODY.
SO THANK COUNCIL MEMBER TISH.
THANK YOU.
I WANTED TO ANNOUNCE TO ANYONE
WHO IS WITHIN RANGE WHO'S A
WARD ONE RESIDENT THAT COUNCIL
MEMBER HARRISON AND I WILL HAVE
A COFFEE HOUR ON MONDAY,
FEBRUARY TWENTY FOURTH FROM SIX
THIRTY TO EIGHT AT BAMBU WHICH
IS A COWORKING SPACE ON THE
CORNER OF 1ST AND WASHINGTON
AND THE ADDRESS IS 200 SOUTH
FOR STREET AND IF WE CAN
ARRANGE IT WE MAY HAVE A STAFF
MEMBER THERE TO TALK ABOUT ANY
ONE OF THE INCREDIBLE
INITIATIVES THAT WE'RE WORKING
ON AND I'M NOT GOING TO SAY
WHICH ONE BECAUSE I HAVEN'T
ASKED MR. THANK YOU, SIR.
>> ARE
THANK YOU.
>> JUST A QUICK POLICY AGENDA
COMMITTEE UPDATE TODAY MEMBERS
THE POLICY AGENDA COMMITTEE
ALONG WITH THE MAYOR AND CITY
STAFF MET OUR LEGISLATIVE
DELEGATION TO GET THEIR
FEEDBACK AND INPUT ON OUR
POLICY AGENDA.
THIS OF COURSE IS THE DOCUMENT
THAT WILL COME TO COUNCIL
OUTLINING THE PRIORITY THAT WE
HAVE AS A CITY COUNCIL THAT WE
WILL BE WORKING ON TRYING TO
ADVOCATE IN LANSING DIFFERENT
CHANGES TO STATE POLICY THAT
WILL HELP US ADVANCE OUR GOALS
HERE AT HOME AND WITH THE
MICHIGAN LEGISLATURE NOW THE
POLITICAL LANDSCAPE SHIFTING.
THE MICHIGAN HOUSE OF COURSE IS
UNDER REPUBLICAN CONTROL WHILE
THE DEMOCRATS RETAIN THE SENATE
AND THE HOUSE AND THE
GOVERNOR'S OFFICE OF COURSE
THAT CHANGES OUR OUR STRATEGY A
LITTLE BIT AND SO WE HAD A
REALLY GOOD DISCUSSION WITH OUR
LEGISLATIVE LEADERS, OUR
LEGISLATIVE DELEGATION AND
FOCUSED AROUND OUR HIGH LEVEL
INITIATIVES, THINGS LIKE
ADVANCING AFFORDABLE HOUSING IN
OUR COMMUNITY, OUR CLIMATE
ACTION GOALS, ENVIRONMENT
PROTECTING HUMAN RIGHTS AND
WORKERS RIGHTS, RETAINING LOCAL
CONTROL ON ISSUES THAT MATTER
TO US AND AND SECURING FUNDING
FOR ROADS AND MASS TRANSIT.
SO YOU KNOW, DESPITE THESE
POLITICAL SHIFTS, WE ARE ALL
COMMITTED TO CONTINUING TO
ADVANCE PROGRESSIVE POLICIES
FOR OUR CITY AND WE WILL BE
FINALIZING THAT POLICY AGENDA
DOCUMENT WITHIN THE NEXT FEW
WEEKS AND IT'LL BE COMING
COUNCIL FOR FULL APPROVAL
SOMETIME HOPEFULLY IN FEBRUARY.
>> THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
>> THANK YOU, MAYOR.
HAPPY BLACK HISTORY MONTH.
I JUST WANTED TO REMIND
EVERYONE THAT THE VIEWING OF A
LETTER TO THE WEST SIDE WELL IT
THE SHOW SOLD OUT.
THE TICKETS ARE FREE BUT IT
FILLED UP FOR FEBRUARY 8TH
WHICH IS THE SATURDAY.
>> BUT THERE WILL BE A SECOND
SHOWING WHICH WILL BE ON
FEBRUARY TWENTY SIXTH AT 6:00
P.M. YOU JUST YOU HAVE TO HAVE
A RESERVATION IN ORDER TO COME
TO AND VIEW THE FILMING SO YOU
CAN GO TO THE ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION ON FACEBOOK THEIR
PAGE ON FACEBOOK OR YOU CAN
LOOK FOR THE EVENT ON
EVENTBRITE.
>> SO JUST WANTED TO REMIND
EVERYONE ABOUT THAT SECOND
VIEWING THINGS COUNCIL MEMBER
ACKMANN.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANTED TO BE SURE THAT PEOPLE
KNEW ABOUT THE RECENTLY
ANNOUNCED EXPANSION OF OUR HOME
ENERGY REBATE PROGRAM PRIOR TO
ZERO.
SO THERE'S GOING TO BE MORE
SERVICES AND MORE FUNDING TO
RESIDENTS CHANGES INCLUDING
INCREASES TO THE REBATE DOLLAR
AMOUNTS FOR PROJECTS LIKE
WEATHERIZATION.
SO THIS WOULD BE THINGS LIKE
INSULATION AND AIR-SEA COOLING
AND COLD CLIMATE HEAT PUMPS AND
THE REBATE MEASURES HAVE ALSO
BEEN EXPANDED TO RESIDENTS THAT
ARE LIVING IN MULTI-FAMILY
BUILDINGS.
>> AS WE HEARD I THINK A COUPLE
OF MEETINGS AGO, THE INITIAL
ROLLOUT WAS WITH UNITS NOT MORE
THAN FOUR.
NOW IT'S ALL OF THEM.
SO GOOD NEWS ON ALL FRONTS.
>> HOUSE MEMBER WATSON
JUST
JUST TO ADD A PIECE ON THE
LETTER THE WEST SIDE
DOCUMENTARY IT FEATURES MANY
MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL WHICH IS A
GROUP OF BLACK INCORPORATES WHO
HELPED PLAN OUR DUNBAR TOWER
CATHERINE STREET DEVELOPMENT.
SO IT'S JUST ANOTHER WAY I MEAN
WITH BLACK HISTORY MONTH I
THINK WE NEED TO RECOGNIZE THE
WAY THAT THE BLACK COMMUNITY
HAS HELPED SHAPE THE ANN ARBOR
AND CONTINUES TO ESPECIALLY
THIS ORGANIZED WAY THROUGH OUR
LEADERSHIP COUNCIL COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK AND I WOULD LIKE
TO INVITE YOU TO AWARD TO
LISTENING SESSION ON SUNDAY
FEBRUARY TWENTY THIRD FROM
THREE TO FOUR P.M. AT TRAVERSAL
LIBRARY THIS MONTH FEATURES
CHIEF ANDRE ANDERSON AND WE
HOPE YOU WILL COME OUT AND GET
TO KNOW YOUR POLICE CHIEF.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL
.
I'D LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS THAT WERE
PRESENTED TO CITY COUNCIL ON
JANUARY TWENTY ONE TWENTY
TWENTY FIVE TO THE DOWNTOWN
DEVELOPMENT AREA RESIDENTIAL
RESIDENT CONSULTANCY COUNCIL
JOHN SPLIT AND JOSEPH CURIUM.
HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE BY A
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
DISCUSSION ON FABER POSED THIS
PROVED WE NOW HAVE THE FORCED
CONSENT AGENDA MET THE MOTION
TO APPROVE THE CONSENT THE
GENTLEMAN BY COUNCIL DIS
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION OF THE
CONSENT AGENDA.
I BELIEVE WE HAVE TWO
INTRODUCTIONS.
>> FIRST PERHAPS SPACEX CHIEF
AFTER NEWMYER IN COUNCIL HAD A
QUESTION TODAY ABOUT THE PRICE
OF THE LADDER.
THAT'S BEFORE YOU THIS EVENING
I'M GOING TO USE A TECHNICAL
TERM AND THAT'S BONKERS.
THE PRICE OF FIRE TRUCKS HAS
BECOME BONKERS AND THERE ARE
SIMPLY NO HISTORICAL PRECEDENT
FOR THE LAST TIME THAT WE HAD A
INGEN WHICH IS SO THOUGH WHAT'S
IN FRONT OF YOU TONIGHT IS A
LADDER TRUCK AND I CAN KIND
OF EXPLAIN WHY WE ARE GOING
WITH THIS PARTICULAR LADDER
TRUCK.
BUT THE LAST TIME WE WERE
BEFORE YOU WAS MAY OF TWENTY
TWENTY THREE THAT WAS A ENGINE
COMPANY.
>> SMALLER VEHICLES PUMP WATER
AND THAT WAS EIGHT HUNDRED AND
THIRTY THOUSAND IN TWENTY
TWENTY TWO LITERALLY A YEAR
BEFORE THAT WE HAD AN IDENTICAL
PUMP EXCUSE ME AN IDENTICAL
SPECKED ENGINE USING THE EXACT
SAME SPECIFICATIONS THAT WAS
SIX HUNDRED AND SIXTY TWO
THOUSAND SO THAT HAD A YEAR TO
YEAR INCREASE OF TWENTY FIVE
PERCENT.
THE INDUSTRY HAS SHRUNK SO
THERE ARE VERY IT'S ABOUT HALF
THE DOMESTIC MANUFACTURERS THAN
THERE WERE ABOUT TWENTY YEARS
AGO.
THEY HAVE NEVER CAUGHT FROM
COVID AND A LOT OF COMMUNITIES
USED FEDERAL MONEY OVER THE
LAST COUPLE OF YEARS TO
PURCHASE FIRE APPARATUS AND SO
YOU HAD THIS COVID BACKLOG THAT
NEVER GOT CAUGHT UP WITH YOU
HAD A HUGE DEMAND THAT THE
MANUFACTURERS JUST WERE NOT
READY FOR AND THAT HAS REALLY
PLACED THEM IN A ALMOST A
MONOPOLY MARKET WHERE VERY FEW
MANUFACTURERS SIGNIFICANT
ORDERS FROM MUNICIPALITIES AND
PRETTY MUCH YEAR TO YEAR SINCE
TWENTY TWENTY DOUBLE DIGIT IF
NOT TWENTY FIVE THIRTY PERCENT
YEAR TO YEAR INCREASES THE LAST
TIME WE HAVE PURCHASED LADDER
TRUCK WAS IN 2013.
SO THAT'S WHAT THIS RIG IS
GOING TO REPLACE.
THAT RIG WAS JUST OVER A
MILLION DOLLARS THAT WAS A ONE
MILLION FOUR HUNDRED AND THIRTY
THOUSAND DOLLARS.
SO FAST FORWARD TEN YEARS LATER
THIS IS ABOUT WELL OVER DOUBLE
THE COST.
SO DRAMATIC INCREASE THE PRICE
THAT WE'RE PAYING IS
PROPORTIONATE WITH WHAT OTHER
COMMUNITIES OR OTHER RIGS
OF THIS TYPE ARE PAYING.
SO THIS IS A MARKET RATE THAT
WE'RE PAYING FOR THIS APPARATUS
ONE THING THAT IS UNIQUE ABOUT
THIS IT IS A LITTLE MORE COSTLY
AND A LITTLE MORE IT'S ABOUT A
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS MORE
NOT AN INSIGNIFICANT AMOUNT.
THIS WOULD BE WHAT'S IN THE
INDUSTRY IS CALLED A TRACTOR
DRAWN AERIAL OR A TELLER AND
THIS ACTUALLY HAS A DRIVER IN
THE REAR.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING TREMENDOUSLY
WITH THE DDA OVER THE LAST
SEVERAL YEARS WITH THE DESIRE
FOR BIKE LANES, PEDESTRIAN BUMP
OUTS, OUR CURRENT LADDER TRUCK
IS ROUTINELY HAVING TO DRIVE
OVER CURBS DRIVING OVER THE
BIKE LANE REFLECTORS.
IT'S NOT GOOD FOR ANY OF THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE AND IT'S
ESPECIALLY NOT GOOD FOR THAT
RIG WE JUST SIMPLY DON'T HAVE A
CHOICE BUT TO NAVIGATE GIVEN
THE TURN RADIUS TO REALLY HAVE
TO DRIVE OVER THOSE THINGS
AGAIN.
>> NOT GOOD FOR THOSE THINGS.
NOT GOOD FOR OUR RIG.
THE TILLER TRUCK HAS A REAR
DRIVER AND SO IT ALLOWS FOR
THIS DRAMATIC OVER 30 PERCENT
REDUCTION IN TURN RADIUS AND
ESPECIALLY WITH WHAT'S THE
DENSITY OF THE DOWNTOWN, THE
DESIRE FOR PEDESTRIANS, THE
DESIRE FOR BIKE LANES.
THIS IS WHAT OTHER COMMUNITIES
WITH VERY TIGHT AREAS SEATTLE,
SAN FRANCISCO, WASHINGTON DC,
NEW YORK HAVE HAVE THESE SORTS
OF RIGS AND WHAT WE'RE SEEING
WITH DOWNTOWN DENSITY IS WHAT
THEY'RE SEEING IN THESE MUCH
MORE DENSE URBAN COMMUNITIES.
SO THAT'S OUR OUR
RECOMMENDATION FOR THIS VEHICLE
.
THE OTHER PART TOO, WHICH IS
ALSO A HUGE SOURCE
OF FRUSTRATION.
>> THIS RIG HAS A FOUR YEAR
LEAD TIME SO THAT'S THE OTHER
PART IS WE ALSO WANT TO LOCK IN
THE PRICE NOW SO THAT THAT'S
OUR TWENTY THIRTEEN LADDER WILL
BE WELL BEYOND ITS DEPRECIATED
VALUE BY THE TIME WE WE
ACTUALLY GET RECEIPT OF THIS
AND AGAIN THIS THREE TO FOUR
YEAR LEAD TIME HAS ALSO BECOME
AN INDUSTRY NORM PRE THIS WAS A
TEN MONTH BUILD SO IT'S JUST
GOTTEN COMPLETELY WILD.
SO HOPEFULLY HAPPY TO ANSWER
ANY OF THE QUESTIONS ON THAT.
THANK YOU.
OH CAN I YEAH I GUESS WE CAN WE
DO HAVE ANOTHER INTRODUCTION
BUT THE CONCEPT AGENDA IS OPEN
SO SO YEAH SURE.
>> THANKS.
CAN YOU JUST SPEAK.
I THINK WHAT I SAW ON THE
AGENDA ITEM WAS THAT THIS IS
EXPECTED TO HAVE A LIFETIME
OF EIGHTEEN YEARS.
CORRECT.
BUT THE OTHER ONES SEEM TO HAVE
LIKE A LOWER LIKE LIFESPAN ARE
THEY SO OUR CURRENT ONE WAS
FORTUNATELY NO ONE WAS SEVERELY
HURT.
IT WAS ACTUALLY HIT BY A SEMI
ON NINETY FOUR SEVEN YEARS AGO
AND WE REALLY WOULD HAVE HOPED
IT WOULD HAVE BEEN TOTALED OUT
AND IT'S HAD NOTHING BUT
GREMLINS IN IT EVER SINCE.
>> SO GIVEN IT WAS A MILLION
DOLLAR PIECE OF EQUIPMENT IT
WAS ACTUALLY BLOCKING AN
ACCIDENT SCENE GOT HIT BY A
SEMI THERE BY THE GRACE OF GOD
NO ONE WAS HURT OR KILLED THAT
NIGHT BUT THAT HAS A REASON WHY
THAT THAT RIG HAS WE'VE US AND
WE HAVE TRIED IT'S BEEN KIND
OF NON STOP MAINTENANCE AFTER
THAT CRASH.
>> SO THANK YOU.
YEAH, YEAH SURE.
>> THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'M SORRY I WAS REMISS AT THE
BEGINNING I SHOULD HAVE MADE
REMARKS AND DIDN'T BUT SEEING
THE CHIEF IT REMINDED ME HE IS
WEARING A MORNING BADGE WHICH
MEANS WE HAVE A FALLEN
FIREFIGHTER CAPTAIN BRANT
COSTANTINO WHO PASSED HE WAS
RETIRING AS I WAS COMING SO I
DON'T KNOW HIM BUT PERHAPS
CHIEF YOU COULD SPEAK TO HIS
SERVICE FOR JUST A SECOND TOUR.
>> THANK YOU FOR THAT THAT
OPPORTUNITY.
SO CAPTAIN STANKO WAS RETIRED
AS A CAPTAIN IN DECEMBER
OF TWENTY TWO.
HE WAS DIAGNOSED WITH CANCER
ABOUT A YEAR BEFORE HE LEFT AND
HIS CANCER WAS RECOGNIZED UNDER
THE STATE OF MICHIGAN FIRST
RESPONDERS ACT WHICH THERE ARE
CERTAIN CANCERS THAT ARE
FIREFIGHTERS HAVE A WATER
MAGNITUDE DIFFERENT CANCER RATE
BEYOND THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
HIS CANCER WAS ONE OF THEM THAT
THAT FOLLOWED THROUGH
UNFORTUNATELY JUST VERY TWO
SHORT YEARS AFTER HIS
RETIREMENT AND YEARS OF SERVICE
FROM THE CITY I BELIEVE HE
SERVED FOR 22 YEARS.
TREMENDOUS GUY DEARLY BELOVED,
VERY TRAGIC IN THE SERVICE FOR
HIM AS THIS WEEKEND.
SO THANK MR. TONY.
>> THANK YOU, CHIEF.
YOU KNOW OUR SECOND
INTRODUCTION WITH RESPECT TO
KEVIN .
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
MAYOR AND MEMBERS COUNCIL
QUESTIONS WERE POSED ON THESE
SEVEN FIRST.
DOES THE OTHER FUNDING
REFERENCED IN HIS PROPOSAL
INCLUDE FEDERAL GRANTS OR
ALLOCATIONS E.G. EVADING THE
OTHER FEDERAL PROGRAMS AND IF
SO, WHICH ONES?
THE RESPONSE TO THAT IS THE TAG
IN THE MEMO.
OTHER RECENT FUNDING EFFORTS
THAT INCLUDE STATE AWARDS AS
WELL AS FEDERAL US DEPARTMENT
OF ENERGY AWARDS SUCH AS THE
GEOTHERMAL GRANT QUESTION TO
WHAT CONTINGENCY PLANS ARE IN
PLACE TO ADDRESS RISK RISKS
FROM THINGS LIKE FEDERAL
EXECUTIVE ORDERS LIMITING
CLIMATE RELATED FUNDING AND
PENDING LITIGATION THAT COULD
DELAY OR BLOCK FEDERAL FUNDS?
VERY, VERY TIMELY QUESTION
RESPONSE DESIGNS AND DEEP
COLLABORATION WITH LEGAL AND
THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR OFFICE.
WE'VE BEEN WORKING TO GET AS
MANY SIGNED GRANT AGREEMENTS AS
WE CAN.
WE'VE BEEN BRINGING THEM TO
YOU.
WE'VE BEEN ENCUMBERING FUNDS,
MOVING CONTRACTS OR DOING
EVERYTHING WE CAN TO PRESERVE
AS MUCH FEDERAL FUNDING AS
POSSIBLE.
THE CITY IS ALSO CLOSELY
FOLLOWING THE CHANGES TAKING
PLACE IN FEDERAL POLICIES AND
THE CHALLENGES THOSE CHANGES
ARE PLACING BEFORE US IN THIS
RAPIDLY CHANGING ENVIRONMENT AT
THIS POINT IT'S IMPOSSIBLE TO
PREDICT EXACTLY HOW THE
RECENTLY PASSED FEDERAL
EXECUTIVE ORDERS WILL IMPACT
THE CITY AND OUR SUSTAINABILITY
INITIATIVES IN PARTICULAR.
BUT WHAT I CAN SAY IS THAT
STAFF ARE WORKING VERY HARD TO
PRESERVE AS MUCH FUNDING AS WE
CAN.
WE ARE LUCKY THAT WE'VE BEEN
QUITE SUCCESSFUL IN THE LAST 18
MONTHS TO BRING JUST ABOUT
THIRTY TWO MILLION DOLLARS IN
FEDERAL AWARDS AND WHAT I CAN
TELL WAS TRUE IS THAT OSHA HAS
THE FUNDING TO COVER THE SEVEN
IF THE GRANT FUNDS ARE REVOKED
AND AS SUCH WE FEEL CONFIDENT
MOVING THIS PROPOSAL FORWARD
REGARDLESS OF THE UNCERTAINTY
LANDSCAPE.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON OH YEAH
SURE.
WELL YOU COULD COMMENT ON IT
WITHOUT PULLING IT BUT IF YOU
WISH TO PULL IT ALL RIGHT,
COUNCILMAN TERRORISM SOME
REMARKS ABOUT IT A BLACK
HISTORY BLACK HISTORY IS IN OUR
HISTORY.
THE JAMES L. CRAWFORD ELKS
LODGE STANDS AS A TESTAMENT TO
TO THAT FACT PROOF THAT WHEN
BLACK AND CIVIL RIGHTS WERE
POLICED OUT SPACES WE BUILT OUR
OWN WHEN EXCLUSION WAS THE NORM
WE CREATED INSTITUTIONS THAT
NOT ONLY SUSTAINED US BUT
UPLIFTED AN ENTIRE COMMUNITY.
AND TODAY AS EFFORTS ACROSS THE
THE COUNTRY TRY TO ERASE THAT
HISTORY, THE CITY IS THIS CITY
IS CHOOSING TO RECOGNIZE IT,
INVEST AND ENSURE ITS FUTURE.
THE NEARLY TWO HUNDRED THOUSAND
DOLLARS FROM AN OBVIOUS
BICENTENNIAL FUNDS IS MORE THAN
A FINANCIAL
CONTRIBUTION.
IT'S A DECLARATION THAT OUR
HISTORY WILL NOT BE REWRITTEN,
BURIED, BURIED OR IGNORED.
>> THESE FUNDS WEREN'T JUST
RAISED IN FEBRUARY.
THEY WERE RAISED ALL YEAR
BECAUSE BLACK HISTORY ISN'T
ONCE AND ISN'T A ONCE A YEAR
ACKNOWLEDGMENT.
>> IT'S THE BONDS OF KINSHIP
THAT HAVE HELD THIS COMMUNITY
TOGETHER THROUGH GENERATIONS IN
THE RESILIENCE OF THOSE WHO
BUILT SPACES LIKE THE ELKS
LODGE WHEN THEY WERE SHOT OUT
OF OTHERS.
WHILE POLICIES TODAY ARE BEING
ROLLED BACK ERASING THE TRUTH
THAT BLACK PEOPLE DIDN'T JUST
SURVIVE SEGREGATION, WE
CREATED EXCELLENCE IN SPITE
OF IN OUR ERA HAS TAKEN A
DIFFERENT PATH.
WE'RE SAYING THAT BLACK AND
OPERATES BELONG, THAT OUR
SPACES DESERVE TO BE PRESERVED
,THAT OUR CONTRIBUTIONS AREN'T
FOOTNOTES IN HISTORY, THAT THEY
ARE HISTORY AND BY INVESTING IN
THE ELKS LODGE WE'RE ENSURING
THAT FUTURE GENERATIONS WILL
KNOW THAT WE'LL KNOW THAT
TRUTH.
>> THANK FURTHER DISCUSSION THE
CONTENT AGENDA ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSE CONSENT AGENDA IS
APPROVED WITH 10 COUNCIL
MEMBERS PRESENT ALL VOTE IN THE
AFFIRMATIVE TO SATISFY THE
EIGHT VOTE REQUIREMENT WITH
RESPECT TO SEE A SIX WE NOW
COME TO A PUBLIC HEARING.
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING TO SPEAK
AT A PUBLIC HEARING ONE NEED
NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN ADVANCE.
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
PUBLIC HEARING THAT IS TO SAY
THE SPECIFIC ITEM ON THE AGENDA
TO WHICH THE PUBLIC HEARING
RELATES SPEAKERS IN ALL
INSTANCES WILL HAVE THREE
MINUTES IN WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK OR THE
TIME CLOCK WILL NOTIFY YOU IN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING AND
WHEN YOUR TIME HAS EXPIRED,
PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR REMARKS
AND CEDE THE FLOOR.
OUR FIRST PUBLIC HEARING TODAY
IS PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
THREE TO FOUR FIVE OF CHAPTER
FOURTEEN PURCHASING CONTRACTING
AND SELLING PROCEDURE OF TITLE
ONE OF THE CODE THAT CITY
ARBER.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING?
MARY DON'T HAVE ANY CALLERS ON
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEE NO
IN THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
MEETING MINUTES OF JANUARY 21.
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE EVER MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THESE MINUTES
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER A
DENHA DISCUSSION OF THE MINUTES
ON FAVOR POSED.
THE MINUTES ARE APPROVED BE1 AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
THREE TO 4.5 OF CHAPTER
FOURTEEN PURCHASING CONTRACTING
AND SELLING PROCEDURE TITLE ONE
OF THE CODE OF THE CITY BANABA
MOVE BY COUNCILOR ER SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA DISCUSSION
PLEASE HAVE BE ONE COUNCIL
MEMBER SOMEBODY OR PERHAPS NOT
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE ONE
OR FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED
C ONE IN ORDER TO AMEND CHAPTER
FIFTY FIVE ZONING REZONING
OF POINT SIX POINT SIX ACRES
FROM R1 C SINGLE FAMILY
DWELLING DISTRICT TO PIAO
PUBLIC LAND DISTRICT PARK AT
DEXTER ROAD AND SIBLE DRIVE
REZONING TWO FIVE SEVEN ZERO
TWO FIVE SEVEN SIX AND TWO FIVE
EIGHT TO DEXTRA ROAD MOVE BY
COUNCILOR SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER COSIO IN DISCUSSION
PLEASE OF C ONE COUNCILOR
REDISH IF ANYTHING NEEDS TO BE
SAID THESE THREE VACANT LOTS
WILL RESTORE A BASKETBALL COURT
TO AN ANN ARBOR HOUSING
COMMISSION PROPERTY WHERE DUE
TO A RENOVATION A LITTLE WHILE
AGO IN THE INSTALLATION OF A
OF A PLAYGROUND FOR LITTLE
PEOPLE THE PLAYGROUND FOR TALL
PEOPLE WAS TAKEN WAY.
>> I GUESS YOU DON'T HAVE TO BE
TALL TO BE ON A MUNICIPAL
BASKETBALL COURT BUT IN ANYWAY.
SO IT IS WONDERFUL THAT THIS
LAND HAS BEEN ACQUIRED.
IT IS ACQUIRED THROUGH
DIFFERENT FUNDING SOURCES BUT
IN PART THROUGH THE GREENBELT
GREENBELT FUNDS AND IT'LL BE
GREAT TO HAVE EVERYBODY PLAYING
AT THIS FACILITY.
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION OR FAVOR
OR OPPOSED IS APPROVED C TO AN
AUDIENCE TO AMEND SECTION ONE
ONE NINE FIVE PUBLIC MARKET
ADVISORY MR. CHAIRMAN
OF CHAPTER TWO CHAPTER EIGHT
ORGANIZATION OF BOARDS AND
COMMISSIONS TITLE ONE
ADMINISTRATION OF THE
UNIVERSITY CODE MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER
A DENHA DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C
TO ON FABER OPPOSED IT IS
APPROVED DC ONE TO DIRECT THE
CITY ATTORNEY TO PROVIDE A
PUBLIC LEGAL MEMORANDUM
REGARDING THE CITY THAT
NEIGHBORS INTERVENTION AND DTG
ELECTRIC COMPANY AND GAS
COMPANY PROCEEDINGS BEFORE THE
MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION SINCE TWENTY TWENTY
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG
SECOND BY COUNCILMAN ACKMANN
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE.
>> I'M DELIGHTED TO PARTICIPATE
IN BRINGING THIS THIS FORWARD
THE OF COURSE THE CITY THE NRA
DOES ALL SORTS OF DIFFERENT
THINGS FOR ITS RESIDENTS
PARTICULARLY IN IN THE ENERGY
SPACE ARE A TWO ZERO PROGRAM IS
PERHAPS FIRST AND FOREMOST AS
PEOPLE TO KNOW WE TAKE DO A LOT
OF WORK IN CONNECTION WITH OUR
GROWING GROWING WORK BEHIND
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY AND
OTHER AREAS.
>> HOWEVER, WHAT FOLKS TEND NOT
TO APPRECIATE IS THE GREAT AND
GOOD WORK DONE BY OUR CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE AND BEFORE
THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION IN AND PUBLIC
UTILITY RATE CASES AS FOLKS
KNOW THE THE TWO PUBLIC UTILITY
COMPANIES GAS ELECTRIC ARE
REGULATED UTILITIES ARE SUBJECT
TO THE SUPERVISION REGULATION
OF THE MICHIGAN PUBLIC SERVICE
COMMISSION AND IN RATE CASES
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC AND
OTHERS CAN PARTICIPATE AND WORK
TO AFFECT THE TERMS OF THAT
REGULATION.
THE CITY THEN ARBOR OSSI CITY
ATTORNEY'S OFFICE HAVE A GREAT
DEAL OF INNOVATIVE WORK AND A
GREAT DEAL OF WORK THAT HAS
BEEN TO THE BENEFIT OF ANN
ARBOR RESIDENTS AND RESIDENTS
THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRETY OF OF
THE SERVICE AREAS AND I THINK
IT'S RIGHT AND PROPER THAT
FOLKS HAVE A GREATER
UNDERSTANDING OF THAT.
WE'VE HAD THE BENEFIT OF LEGAL
ANALYSIS TELLING US WHAT'S BEEN
GOING ON BUT I THINK IT IS
IMPORTANT AND CRUCIAL THAT
OTHER PEOPLE KNOW AND
UNDERSTAND AS WELL.
AND SO WE'RE ASKING HERE TODAY
THE CITY ATTORNEY'S OFFICE TO
PUT TOGETHER A MEMORANDUM WHICH
WOULD EXPLAIN A LITTLE BIT MORE
OF WHAT IT IS, WHAT IT HAS BEEN
DOING THE AND THE SUCCESS THAT
IT'S HAD AND THE EFFECTS THAT
THAT SUCCESS HAS BEEN
EXPERIENCED BY BY RESIDENTS
FURTHER DISCUSSION COUNCIL
MEMBER MALIK.
I JUST ALSO WANT TO UNDERSCORE
THE IMPORTANCE OF BOTH THE
CITIES INVOLVEMENT IN THESE
PROCEEDINGS BUT ALSO OF MAKING
THE RESULTS PUBLIC.
>> SO TYPICALLY ENTITIES
INTERVENING IN THESE CASES ARE
LARGE CORPORATIONS AND
BUSINESSES OR INTEREST GROUPS
OF SOME KIND ADVOCATING FOR
THEIR OWN INTERESTS.
THERE ARE VIRTUALLY NEVER
INDIVIDUALS ADVOCATING ON
BEHALF OF THEMSELVES IN THESE
CASES AND RARELY ARE THERE
MUNICIPALITIES STANDING UP FOR
THEIR OWN CITIZENS INTERESTS IN
THESE CASES.
BUT HOWEVER, THAT'S EXACTLY
WHAT OUR CITY'S ATTORNEY'S
OFFICE HAS DONE HERE AND I'M
EXCITED TO LEARN FURTHER ABOUT
THE RESULTS THIS UNIQUE
INTERVENTION HAS ACHIEVED
FURTHER DISCUSSION ON FAVOR OR
OPPOSE IT IS APPROVED.
>> DO WE HAVE THE PLEASURE OF A
CLOSED SESSION TODAY?
NO, THANK YOU MAN.
WE HAVE BEFORE US THE CLERK'S
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS BY THE
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER THE DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION
ON FAVOR POSED THE CLERK
SUPPORT IS APPROVED.
>> WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY TO CITY ATTORNEY.
>> I LOOK FORWARD TO WRITING
THE MEMO BUT THANK YOU.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO RECEIVING IT
IN THE ABSENCE OF PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW WE HAVE A
MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILMAN RACHMAN'S MY
COUNSEL OR OUR DISCUSSION ON
FAVOR POSED.
>> WE'RE ADJOURNED.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU